---
layout: post
title: "Copy cat"
date: 2016-10-05
---

# Copycat

Oscar Wilde once said:
<blockquote>
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery that mediocrity can pay to greatness.
</blockquote>

This is true. However, what I find most interesting is the segment where he labels the imitators or copycats as mediocre. This shouldn't offend anyone. At the beginning of any endeavor, we're all pretty mediocre. I bring this up because I have realized my own mediocrity and am singing praises to greatness. It is humbling to recognize your own mediocrity. It is also extremely motivating to know that greatness is within reach...if you endure.

What in the world does this have to do with programming? Well, I just completed the project for the Rails assessment. This is a big deal because it took me two weeks. TWO WEEKS. As opposed to just randomly coming up with a web app to build, I decided I would try to copy a product I already use. How hard could it be? I chose to copy the budgeting app we (my wife and I) are currently using, [Get Scrimped](http://getscrimped.com/login).

The end product of my efforts is the [Deliberate Finances App](https://github.com/crwhitesides/deliberate_finances_app). The name is dull. Who cares. The purpose of the app, as stated in its readme, is to "help you manage your money more deliberately. Why? Well, because at some point in your life you've asked yourself: 'Where did all the money go?'" 

Does my app work? Yes. 

Does my app work as well as Get Scrimped? Heavens, no! 

Am I satisfied? Yes. Oh, yes. 

Being a copycat is usually considered a bad thing. However, when it comes to learning how to program (and design), it might be one of the best ways to really stretch yourself. You are forced to "reverse engineer" the product. You have to try and understand why the creator did what he/she did. You can decide to add features to satisfy individual needs. You are even tempted to try and design the product...because finished products just look so pretty.

So, I invite you to imitate. Be a copycat! Don't fear mediocrity! After all, the great ones were all surely mediocre at one point too.

###### It is important to give credit where credit is due. Get Scrimped was built and designed by [Conor Muirhed](https://twitter.com/conormuirhead).
